Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I want to provide a demonstration of a synchronized approach to implementing the Singleton
pattern.
This it is.
This is an improvement upon the implementation of the Singleton pattern using a lazy approach.
Let's go ahead and bring up and tell Jay and bring up our previous example which used a lazy implementation
approach.
We're going to modify it slightly so that it uses a thread safe approach so we're going to open up our
previous project.
This is our Singleton lazy initialization example and the first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna
save it as the thread safe approach so let's go ahead and say file see if we can save this project has
a different name OK.
Now we have our copied project.
It's called Singleton synchronized approach example.
It's the same one as the previous project where it was doing lazy evaluation.
We're now going to make this thread's thread safe.
So the easiest way to create a thread save singleton class is to make the global access method Synchronized
only one thread will then be able to execute the method at a time so all we're gonna do is we're going
to add synchronized to our Get instance method.
So we're gonna say public static synchronized
I could spell correctly and it's a synchronized we're gonna put a comma here basically by adding the
synchronized keyword
to the get instance method we force every thread to wait its turn before it can enter the method.
Probably good.
Do a nice return here.
Of course every thread to wait its turn before it can enter the method.
We know the synchronized keyword we're all Java experts.
This will ensure that there is no there's no race conditions when they get instance called.
So we'll still do the if unique instance equals the no unique inconveniences equals new Singleton.
That's it.
That's the entire implementation to make sure that its thread safety all right we do the get instance
here and we do still do that laziness ization.
And here this can or cannot be null.
Maybe technically it would be lazy initialization when we put it in here but I like to set it to null
explicitly because that's good programming practice.
And that's basically it.
If you compile and run it you'll see that you get the same same output as before where the same instance
is created and we'll make sure that that occurs
want to run the test Singleton.
And again just the same output as before.
Same instance same data point.
Value data member verbal.
Now let's look at some of the problems with this approach.
Let's go back to the slides to highlight the height those disadvantages
so one big problem with the synchronization approach using lazy evaluation method ends up being.
There could be a severe bottleneck.
So if all the threads have to wait for the check on whether the object is already exists.
This can reduce the performance because of the costs associated with the synchronized method.
So just by using the synchronized keyword there is a cost because there can be a bottleneck with the
weighting.
The only time the synchronization is relevant is the first time through the method.
Once you have the set of the unique instance variable to an instance of the singleton then you know
you don't need the synchronise anymore in the method.
You don't have to worry about race conditions.
You only have to worry about that race condition when it needs a check for no it will never be null
again.
So you'll never have the race condition creating instance but after the first time through synchronization
is totally on needed overhead.
So not only doesn't perform a bottleneck it's unneeded overhead after that first pass so for most job
applications we need to ensure that the Singleton works in the presence of multiple threads and does
not have these performance issues related to the bottleneck and related to the check happening every
single time even though it doesn't need to be checked.
So now this brings us to our third approach which is called the double check locking principle which
will improve on the synchronized approach which we'll discuss in the next lecture.
Thank you.